People are so often pushed from one agency to the next agency to
the next, and it can seem like the buck never stops.
And it's really important that we recognize that. And when it comes in
front of us, in front of our desk, to my vehicle,
that we don't do that same thing. Our Sunshine Coast Harm Reduction program
is, in my opinion, a fairly historic program in British Columbia.
Our community is what we describe as a ribbon community. Our highway is
85 kilometers long and we have a number of communities spread out along
that highway. So from early on, we determined that we needed to offer
a mobile harm reduction program so that we could meet people where they're
at, not require people to meet us at our office,
not require people to necessarily get in a vehicle and come meet us
somewhere as well. We have individuals from all financial backgrounds, from
all walks of life, from every type of family makeup you can imagine,
seeking supports. We have people that would never present as somebody struggling
with addiction or substance use issues. And we have individuals that everybody
assumes they know what all their problems are.
It's our job to meet everybody where they're at and to be as
open and welcoming as possible, no matter what their background, no matter
what level of service they're seeking. I have the best clients I could
ever ask for. My clients are so amazingly interesting and diverse.
I'm never, ever bored. People will call me and
we make arrangements to meet at their home, in the community,
at my office, wherever they decide to meet.
We know that we need to strive to be as client centered as
possible and we find this really puts a lot of the power into
our clients' hands from the very beginning of our conversations. They get
to dictate where we're meeting and how that meeting goes.
So, my car is full of harm reduction equipment, we offer
safe injection equipment, safer smoking equipment, I have safer sex
gear in my car as well as Naloxone. I try to have everything
that I need that people might require from me out there.
Our goal is to reduce stigma, to lower the barriers for our clients
to seek supports and service healthcare. We know that the stigma
that people, individuals are facing is preventing them from seeking attention
at the hospital, seeking attention from their healthcare provider. So, we
are trying to be as aware as possible of that and to lower
the stigma and the barriers to our program. I would like other healthcare
workers to know that when a person sits in front of you,
a person who might use substances, a person who might be struggling,
I'd like you to know that that could be your brother or your
sister or your father or your child, that
that could be you or me. Sometimes, enough circumstances will go the wrong
way that will just tip the balance against us and
lead us into an area where we start struggling. And to understand that
the individual in front of you is shaming themselves already
so much it's damaging their health. We need to
reduce any stigma from our end to help support that person accessing
better health or healthcare or whatever they're attempting to do.